if you've been running Google ad
campaigns for a while there's probably a
really good chance that you've noticed
that your cost per click prices are not
the same as they were when you first
started with more and more businesses
moving away from traditional media and
traditional advertising and moving that
budget online with online media and
online advertising the demand in that
Google Ads auction place is continuing
to rise as more and more advertisers are
competing with you and bidding on the
same keywords trying to capture that
attention of those searchers looking for
that specific product or service with
this increased demand and shortage of
supply what happens is the auction place
is getting more and more competitive
driving the cost per click prices higher
and higher in today's video I really
want to show you how you can lower your
Google ads cost per click and the best
way to approach that
[Music]
[Applause]
hey guys Sylvia Perez here from a
conversion helping you solve your lead
generation problems and grow your
business with digital advertising if
you're new here make sure to click on
that subscribe button down below and all
the links I mentioned and resources in
this video you can find in the
description box down below as well now I
want to show you how to lower your
Google ads cost per click but I want to
really say cuz I need this this needs to
be said because it's really important
because I think we get so caught up in
things that we cannot control and when
it comes to your Google ads cost per
click yes you can do things to lower it
but ultimately in my opinion I think
focusing all your attention and energy
on just trying to lower your Google ads
cost per click is really a losing game
and the reason why is because you cannot
control the Google Ads auction place as
more and more businesses move from
offline to online and they start
investing more dollars on Google ads and
they start competing on the same
keywords as you prices are gonna rise
and you cannot control the marketplace
so yes there are things we can do to
lower our cost per click and I'm going
to talk about that but I think you're
better off focusing the majority of your
attention in addition to lowering your
cost per click on really what's gonna
allow you to position your business for
long term success and ultimately not
even worry about what the cost per click
price is and just dominate your
competition and that's increasing the
lifetime value of your customer if you
can acquire there's old saying I believe
Dan Kennedy said it but he said he who
can afford to spend the most to acquire
customer wins and it's so true you can't
control the auction place you can't
control cost per click prices whether
it's Google Facebook or anything that's
out of your control yes there's things
you can do to mitigate and to reduce and
to get the edge but ultimately prices
will rise over time but what you can
control completely is the lifetime value
of your customer so increasing the
lifetime value of your customer
increasing repeat purchases increasing
transaction size increasing the
frequency of purchase that's things that
are in your control that you can do to
make sure that when you acquire a
customer
it is exponentially more profitable for
you so for example if me and you are
competing against each other and we're
both doing the same things to lower our
costs per click and even the playing
field but if a customer is worth to you
$100 and a customer is worth to me a
thousand I can afford to spend up to a
thousand dollars to break-even on
acquiring that customer and you can only
afford to go up to $100 so by really
focusing on increasing the customer
value the lifetime value of that
customer that's going to allow you to be
able to invest more money in these
advertising platforms and out spend your
competition because as prices increase
all the businesses out there that are
just focusing on the Google Ads
cost per click prices and all these
little hacks and tricks they're gonna
they're gonna die they're gonna lose
because if this other business is
focusing on increasing their customer
value it doesn't matter to them if the
cost per lead is a hundred or ten
dollars as long as their customer value
is a thousand they know they can break
even there and they can if they can
invest so much more to acquire that
customer so yes cost per click prices
matter yes you should improve it yes
it's important but ultimately what's
more important is your business your
business is the most important thing and
the value of your customer and how you
can provide more value to your customers
is more important we get so caught up in
Google Ads Facebook ads YouTube ads
that we forget these things are to
support our business not for it the
other way around
we we treat Google ads and Facebook ads
ads our business and we put so much
energy into things outside of our
control versus shifting our perspective
to increasing the value of our customers
providing the more value offering new
products offering new solutions and
increasing that lifetime value now with
that being out of the way when it comes
to reducing your Google ads cost per
click in order to understand how to
reduce it you have to understand how it
works
so your ad rank which determines how you
get placed on the Google ads results
page whether you're in the top spot
second spot bottom spot the
way that's calculated is it your max
cost-per-click bid times your quality
score so we want to lower our cost per
click prices meaning we want to spend
less per click there's only one variable
of this equation that we can manipulate
and that's the Quality Score aspect
because we don't want to increase our
bids right we want to pay less per click
so the only thing we can do to reduce
our cost per click price is to increase
our quality score because if I have a
higher quality score and a lower bid I
can still outrank someone with a higher
bid and a much lower quality score
quality score is comprised of three
things number one is your add relevance
how relevant is your add to your
keywords number two is your landing page
experience how relevant is your adds to
your keywords to your landing pages
that's also what is called message match
when your keyword add and landing page
all align and then number three is your
expected click-through rate how often
does Google perceive your ads are going
to be clicked on and that one is the one
that's least in your control but there
are things you can do to improve it now
let's get into how you can improve each
individual piece of quality score so
that way you can improve your quality
score overall and reduce your cost per
click prices also you can go into your
columns if you click modify columns in
your Google Ads account and you go to
quality score and then from there you
can check an it to enable add relevance
expected click-through rate and landing
page experience and then from there
you'll be able to see which one is
hurting your quality score overall the
most so that way you can implement one
of these strategies that I'm going to
talk about to improve one of those
variables number one is add relevance
when it comes to improving add relevance
the way you do that is making sure that
you have your ad groups nice and tight
you don't have a lot of keywords in
there and that your ad groups are
relevant to each other so you have
relevant keywords and relevant ad groups
as well as making sure you're using
those keywords in those ad groups in
your ad copy that way your keyword and
your ad copy aligns very well so if you
have low ad relevance chances are you
probably have too many keywords in your
ad groups or you just need to make sure
to break out those keywords into their
own ad groups because they're just a
little bit too different from each other
that way you can make sure you have
relevant
ad copy so you can have higher ad
relevance number two is landing page
experience if you notice you have a
below-average landing page experience
the most likely thing is you're not
maintaining that message match meaning
your keywords ads and landing pages
aren't lining up so if you're bidding on
the keyword Miami dentists and in your
ad copy you have the keyword Miami
dentists but then when they go to your
landing page you're talking about
Chicago dentists that's gonna hurt your
landing page experience so you want to
make sure everything's congruent you're
using the keywords you're bidding on on
your landing pages don't just stuff the
keywords on your landing pages to have
them there they've got to make sense but
make sure that your keywords are on your
landing page so people know they're in
the right spot Unbounce has an amazing
tool when it comes to giving
recommendations on how to improve your
landing page I'll go ahead and link that
in description box down below but just
go ahead and put in your landing page
there and they're gonna spit out a whole
bunch of recommendations that can help
you improve your landing page experience
and that are gonna help you increase
your quality score on the Google ad side
of things last but not least number
three is expected click-through rate if
you notice your expected click-through
rate is the number one thing hurting
your Quality Score it's below average I
just want to say it's actually very
normal of all the accounts I ought it
expected click-through rate is usually
the number one culprit hurting
account-wide Quality Score and when it
comes to expected click-through rate a
lot of it is out of your control but
there are best practices to follow and
all expected click-through rate is again
is just Google's perception on how often
they think your ad is going to get
clicked so when it comes to improving
expected click-through rate best
practices to follow is number one be
testing ads on a continuous basis by
just incrementally improving your
click-through rates again and again
through these ad tests that's going to
improve your overall account wide
click-through rates and that's going to
raise your expected click-through rate
the other thing as well is using ad
extensions by using ad extensions you're
going to make your ads larger you're
going to provide more information to the
searcher Google is going to favor you
for it and by that your click-through
rates going to go higher because you're
providing more information to the
searcher your ads are larger they're
going to get clicked on more often
click-through rates will rise again
expected click-through rate will rise as
well improving your quality score so
again ad testing ad extensions and then
the third one is using negative keywords
the
less irrelevant impressions you can show
up for the better because if you're
showing up for a thousand impressions
and 90% of them are junk that's hurting
your overall click-through rate so by
using negative keywords and reducing
those irrelevant impressions is also
gonna help improve your expected
click-through rate as well to recap when
it comes to lowering your cost per click
you have to focus on improving your
quality score quality score is comprised
of add relevance landing page experience
and expected click-through rate when it
comes to improving your add relevance
you want to make sure you're grouping
your your ad groups correctly relevant
keywords making sure that you're using
your keywords in your ad copy when it
comes to a landing page experience
maintaining that message match use the
Unbounce program I mentioned to get
insights on how you can further improve
your landing page and number three when
it comes to expected click-through rate
making sure you're testing ad copy
religiously using ad extensions and
really implementing negative keywords to
not only block obviously irrelevant
searches but irrelevant impressions if
you liked the video if you can give the
video a thumbs up that would help out a
ton and if you're interested in learning
more about Google ads and you want to
learn how to launch successful Google ad
campaigns to generate more leads for
your business I highly recommend you
check out my free training at ad
conversion dot IO forward slash launch
training on this training I talked about
does Google Ads work why Google Ads is
Google Ads right for you as well as my
seven step launch process for launching
Google ad campaigns and the common traps
to avoid that really cause people to
burn their money and not have the
success they're looking for with Google
Ads
thanks so much for watching and again if
you're not subscribed be sure to
subscribe down below and I'll see you in
the next video
take care